Those extra operators which you have are good to know because sometimes you can save some extra code
by using these shorthands, these abbreviations.
Even more important than that however are other data types you can work with.
We learned about numbers where you have numbers with or without decimal places, numbers without decimal
places are also called integers, numbers with decimal places are also called floats. Besides numbers and
text or strings as it's called,
you also get other core data types which you have to know when working with Javascript,
for example there are booleans. Now booleans are a bit strange and a bit hard to understand right now but
they really shine
once we learn about controlled structures, if statements which we'll do in a separate module soon. Booleans
are effectively values which have one of two possible values, true or false.
So where you can, as a number, have any number or as a string, have any combination of characters,
booleans are exactly one of two values, true or false.
Now you might wonder when you need such a restricted data type and the answer is quite often, because
quite often in code, you have some condition, like is the user currently logged in, which is either true or
false and then you want to run different code based on that condition maybe
and that's what I meant,
booleans shine if you have conditional code and we haven't really learned about this yet but we will
learn about this in a whole module as it's such a core feature.
So already keep booleans in mind, we'll dive deeper into them a bit later and then very deeply though.
More important and something we won't see right away
are objects. Objects are an extremely important type in Javascript, maybe the most important type if you
would have to choose one, of course you need all of them but objects are really important. Objects allow
you to group data you could say, something like this.
Now you create object with curly braces and of course we already saw curly braces when we wrote a function
and that of course was not an object, that was the function body but without the function keyword and so
on, in the place where you could also use a number or a text,
you can create an object by adding curly braces and then you have key-value pairs in there.
Now as I said, you use that for grouping or relating data, let's say you have a little program where
you work with persons, where you have user data that you kind of need in your Javascript code.
Now each user might have a name and an age,
of course you could have standalone separate that variables for that but having an object makes it much
easier to understand that this data kind of belongs together, that it's related, that you use it as one
piece of information if you will and therefore objects are really powerful,
you can also do way more with them than just group data and we will do way more with them throughout
the course
but the data grouping functionality on its own is already pretty amazing and very important.
Now and speaking of kind of organized or grouped data, another core data type are arrays. Now arrays
are created like this with the square brackets here,
also in the same place where you would create numbers or text or whatever you need and an array is simply
a list of data.
So arrays are always great if you need to store a list of data,
let's say a list of transactions, a list of maybe calculations in our calculator and you can store any
data in there.
It can be an array of integers, so of numbers without decimal places like in this example but it could
be an array of text, an array of floats, an array of objects, even an array of arrays is possible and you
can also mix data in there,
you can have an array that has numbers and text elements and so on. Elements in an array are separated
by commas, as are the key-value pairs and objects
but I'd say it makes way more sense to understand and explore these objects and arrays by simply working
with them,
so let's do that in the scope of our project.